---
id: "vbpqta_11094"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_11094"
title: "Law 03/2016/QH14"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "03/2016/QH14"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2016-01-01"
effective_date: "2017-01-01"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Quốc hội"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_11094"
signers:
  - "Nguyễn Thị Kim Ngân"
job_titles:
  - "Chủ tịch Quốc hội"
---

# Law 03/2016/QH14

LAW
Amending and Supplementing Article 6 and Appendix 4 on the List of Sectors and Trades Subject to Conditional Business Investment of the Law on Investment
_____________________________
Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;
The National Assembly promulgates the Law Amending and Supplementing Article 6 and Appendix 4 on the List of Sectors and Trades Subject to Conditional Business Investment of Law No. 67/2014/QH13 on Investment.
Article 1
To amend and supplement the Law on Investment:
1. To add Point g to Clause 1, Article 6, as follows:
“g/ Trade in firecrackers.”;
2. To replace Appendix 4 on the list of sectors and trades subject to conditional business investment of the Law on Investment with Appendix 4 on the list of sectors and trades subject to conditional business investment of the Law on Investment promulgated together with this Law.
Article 2
1. This Law takes effect on January 1, 2017, except for Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Provisions on the following sectors and trades subject to conditional business investment shall take effect on July 1, 2017:
a/ Trade in disguised devices and software to record sound, images and navigate;
b/ Production, assembly and import of automobiles.
The Government shall prescribe the application of transitional provisions to organizations and individuals doing business in sectors and trades specified in this Clause.
3. To annul a number of articles and clauses of the following laws:
a/ Clause 1, Article 19 of Law No. 43/2013/QH13 on Bidding;
b/ Article 151 of Law No. 50/2014/QH13 on Construction.
This Law was passed on November 22, 2016, by the XIV th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its 2 nd session./.
