---
id: "vbpqta_7979"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_7979"
title: "Nghị quyết 04/2004/NQ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "04/2004/NQ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-04-07"
effective_date: "2004-05-02"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_7979"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị quyết 04/2004/NQ-CP

RESOLUTION No. 04/2004/NQ-CP of April 7, 2004 on the Government's March 2004 regular meeting
On March 31 and April 1, 2004, the Government held its March regular meeting, hearing:
- The Construction Minister presenting the scheme on development of the real estate market. Development and efficient management of the real estate market shall importantly contribute to the promotion of socio-economic development and increase of development investment capital source. To develop the real estate market, synchronous and consistent measures should be applied in a healthy manner and along the right direction.
- The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment presenting the scheme on land use planning till 2010 and the land use plan till 2005. Land use planning and plan serve as bases for land-fund use restructuring synchronously with labor and investment restructuring, thus creating rational steps for economic restructuring and national industrialization and modernization.
- The Minister of Finance reporting on the final settlement of the 2002 State budget and the State Auditor General reporting on the 2003 auditing results and State budget year of 2002.
- The Minister of Planning and Investment reporting on the implementation of the socio-economic development plan in March and the first quarter of 2004.
- The State Inspector General presenting the draft Decree guiding the asset declaration by candidates to the People's Councils of all levels.
- The Minister of Justice presenting the draft Ordinance on Judicial Expertise.
- The report on a number issues of the State administrative reform, presented by the general secretary of the Government's Steering Committee for Administrative Reform.
It also considered the report on the organization of the election of deputies to the People's Councils of all levels, the 2004-2009 term, submitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs.- (Summary)
