---
id: "vbpqta_10465"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_10465"
title: "Thông tư 08/2010/TT-BTP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "08/2010/TT-BTP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2010-03-25"
effective_date: "2010-05-10"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Bộ Tư pháp"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_10465"
signers:
  - "Đinh Trung Tụng"
job_titles:
  - "Thứ trưởng"
---

# Thông tư 08/2010/TT-BTP

CIRCULAR
Guiding Forms of nationality related papers and registries of nationality-related matters
Pursuant to the ZOOS Law on Vietnamese Nationality; Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 78/ 2009/ND-CP of September 22, 2009, detailing and guiding a number of articles of the Law on Vietnamese Nationality; Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 93/ 2008/ND-CP of August 22. 2008. defining the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Justice; The Ministry of Justice guides forms of nationality-related papers and registries of nationality-related matters as follows:
Article 1. Scope of regulation
This Circular guides forms of nationality-related papers and registries of nationality-related matters: users of these forms: and the use and management of these forms.
Article 2. Forms of nationality-related papers to promulgate together with this Circular 11 forms of nationality-related papers with their code numbers as follows:
No. Type of form Code number
No.
Type of form
Code number
1 Application for naturalization in Vietnam TP/QT-2010-DXNQT.l
1
Application for naturalization in Vietnam
TP/QT-2010-DXNQT.l
2 Application for naturalization in Vietnam (for persons applying for nationalization in Vietnam under Article 22 of the 2008 Law on Vietnamese Nationality) TP/QT-2010-DXNQT.2
2
Application for naturalization in Vietnam (for persons applying for nationalization in Vietnam under Article 22 of the 2008 Law on Vietnamese Nationality)
TP/QT-2010-DXNQT.2
3 Application for restoration of Vietnamese nationality TI7QT-2010-DXTLQT
3
Application for restoration of Vietnamese nationality
TI7QT-2010-DXTLQT
4 Application for renunciation of Vietnamese nationality TP/QT-2010-DXTQT.l
4
Application for renunciation of Vietnamese nationality
TP/QT-2010-DXTQT.l
5 Application for renunciation of Vietnamese nationality (for guardians who file applications on behalf of their wards) TP/QT-2010-DXTQT.2
5
Application for renunciation of Vietnamese nationality (for guardians who file applications on behalf of their wards)
TP/QT-2010-DXTQT.2
6 Curriculum vitae TP/QT-20I0-TKLL
6
Curriculum vitae
TP/QT-20I0-TKLL
7 Declaration of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality TP/QT-2010-TKDKGQT
7
Declaration of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality
TP/QT-2010-TKDKGQT
8 Notice of acquisition of foreign nationality TP/QT-2010-TBCQTNN
8
Notice of acquisition of foreign nationality
TP/QT-2010-TBCQTNN
9 Certificate of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality TP/QT-2010-GXNDKGQT
9
Certificate of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality
TP/QT-2010-GXNDKGQT
10 Dossier receipt TP/QT-2()10-PTNHS
10
Dossier receipt
TP/QT-2()10-PTNHS
11 List of applicants for handling of dossiers TP/QT-2010-DSDNGQHS
11
List of applicants for handling of dossiers
TP/QT-2010-DSDNGQHS
Article 3. Forms of registries of nationality-related matters
To promulgate together with this Circular 5 forms of registries of nationality-related matters with their code numbers as follows:
No. Type of form Code number
No.
Type of form
Code number
1 Registry of dossiers of application for naturalization in Vietnam TP/QT-2010-SNQT
1
Registry of dossiers of application for naturalization in Vietnam
TP/QT-2010-SNQT
2 Registry of dossiers of application for restoration of Vietnamese nationality TP/QT-2010-STLQT
2
Registry of dossiers of application for restoration of Vietnamese nationality
TP/QT-2010-STLQT
3 Registry of dossiers of application for renunciation of Vietnamese nationality TP/QT-2010-STQT
3
Registry of dossiers of application for renunciation of Vietnamese nationality
TP/QT-2010-STQT
4 Registry of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality TP/QT-2010-SDKGQT
4
Registry of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality
TP/QT-2010-SDKGQT
5 Registry of notices of acquisition of foreign nationality TP/QT-2010-STP-STBCQTNN
5
Registry of notices of acquisition of foreign nationality
TP/QT-2010-STP-STBCQTNN
Article 4. Users of forms of nationality-related papers and registries of nationality-related matters
1. Vietnamese citizens and foreign nationals who apply for the settlement of nationality-related matters:
2. Overseas Vietnamese representative missions:
3. Provincial-level Justice Departments:
4. Provincial-level People's Committees;
5. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
6. The Ministry of Justice.
Article 5. Guidance on the use of forms of nationality-related papers and registries of nationality-related matters
1. Applicants for settlement of nationality-related matters may receive forms of nationality-related papers from overseas Vietnamese representative missions or provincial-level Justice Departments or download these forms from the Ministry of Justice's portal (www.moj.gov.vn - administrative procedures page) for printing and use.
2. Forms of nationality-related papers must be printed in A4 papers and used in accordance with the format and content of each form prescribed in Article 2 of this Circular.
The form of the application for naturalization in Vietnam (for applicants for naturalization in Vietnam under Article 22 of the 2008 Law on Vietnamese Nationality), coded TP/QT-2010-DXNQT.2. will be used through December 31. 2012.
The form of the declaration of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality, coded TP/ QT-2010-TKDKGQT and the form of the certificate of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality, coded TP/QT-2010-GXNDKGQT. will be used through July 1. 2014.
3. Registries of nationality-related matters may be printed, duplicated and bound into books of A3 paper or designed on the computer with a work processor in accordance with the format and content of each form prescribed in Article 3 of this Circular.
The form of the register of registration for retention of Vietnamese nationality, coded TP/ QT-2010-SDKGQT. will be used through July 1, 2014.
Article 6. Management of registers of nationality-related matters
Registers of nationality-related matters shall be preserved in accordance with the law on archives to serve the settlement, management, monitoring, reference, statistics and summarization of nationality-related matters.
Article 7. Effect
This Circular takes effect on May 10, 2010. and replaces the Justice Ministry's Decision No. 60/1999/QD-TP-QT of May 7, 1999 promulgating forms of Vietnamese nationality related papers.
