---
id: "vbpqta_10746"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_10746"
title: "Decision 09/2011/QĐ-TTg"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "09/2011/QĐ-TTg"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2011-01-30"
effective_date: "2011-01-01"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: false
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_10746"
signers:
  - "Nguyễn Tấn Dũng"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Decision 09/2011/QĐ-TTg

DECISION
Decision No. 09/2011/QD-TTg of January 30, 2011, setting norms on poor households and households in danger of falling into poverty for the 2011-2015 period
THE PRIME MINISTER
Pursuant to the December 25, 2001 Law on Organization of the Government;
Pursuant to the Government’s Resolution No. 03/NQ-CP of January 15, 2010, on major solutions to directing and managing the implementation of the 2010 socio-economic development plan and state budget estimates;
At the proposal of the Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs,
DECIDES:
Article 1 . To set norms on poor households and households in danger of falling into poverty for the 2011-2015 period as follows:
1. A rural poor household is a household with each member earning an average income of up to VND 400,000 per month (or VND 4,800,000 per year).
2. An urban poor household is a household with each member earning an average income of up to VND 500,000 per month (or VND 6,000,000 per year).
3. A rural household in danger of falling into poverty is a household with each member earning an average income of between VND 401,000 and VND 520,000 per month.
4. An urban household in danger of falling into poverty is a household with each member earning an average income of between VND 501,000 and VND 650,000 per month.
Article 2 . The poverty lines specified in Article 1 of this Decision serve as a basis for realizing social security policies and other socio-economic policies.
Article 3 . This Decision takes effect on January 1, 2011.
Article 4. Ministers, heads of ministerial-level agencies, heads of government-attached agencies, and chairpersons of People’s Committees of provinces and centrally run cities shall implement this Decision.
