---
id: "vbpqta_8224"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8224"
title: "Nghị định 09/2004/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "09/2004/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-01-02"
effective_date: "2004-01-25"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8224"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 09/2004/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 09/2004/ND-CP of January 2, 2004 on the expansion of Ha Tinh provincial capital and establishment of wards thereof as well as the dissolution of agricultural farm townships and establishment of communes of Thanh Ha, Huong Khe, Huong Son and Ky Anh rural districts, Ha Tinh province
To transfer a land area of 2,553.24 ha and a population of 16,976 of Thach Ha, Thach Mon, Thach Dong, Thach Hung and Thach Binh communes of Thanh Ha rural district to Ha Tinh provincial capital.
To establish Ha Huy Tap ward of Ha Tinh provincial capital on the basis of the whole land area of 200.67 ha and the population of 4,020 of Thach Phu commune.
To establish Dai Nai ward of Ha Tinh provincial capital on the basis of the whole land area of 425.71 ha and the population of 5,748 of Dai Nai commune.
After the adjustment of its administrative boundary, Ha Tinh provincial capital shall have a land area of 5,618.62 ha, a population of 77,306, and 15 dependent administrative units, while these figures for Thach Ha rural district shall be 39,946.50, 179,775, and 37, respectively.
To dissolve Thach Ngoc agricultural farm township of Thach Ha rural district to establish Ngoc Son commune, which shall have a land area of 2.076 ha and a population of 2,438.
To dissolve 20/4 agricultural farm township of Huong Khe rural district to establish Huong Tra commune, which shall have a land area of 1,513 ha and a population of 2,437.
To split Son Kim commune of Huong Son rural district into Son Kim 1 and Son Kim 2 communes.
To establish Ky Trung commune of Ky Anh rural district on the basis of a land area of 1,186,20 ha and a population of 2,095 of Ky Van commune, a land area of 969.70 ha and a population of 312 of Ky Giang commune, a land area of 334.10 ha of Ky Tay commune, a land area of 137 ha of Ky Tien commune; and a land area of 757.70 ha of Ky Phong commune.
This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.- (Summary)
