---
id: "vbpqta_10568"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_10568"
title: "Decree 10/2011/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "10/2011/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2011-01-26"
effective_date: "2011-03-15"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: false
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_10568"
signers:
  - "Nguyễn Tấn Dũng"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Decree 10/2011/NĐ-CP

DECREE
AMENDING AND SUPPLEMENTING A NUMBER OF ARTICLES OF DECREE NO. 141/2006/ND-CP OF NOVEMBER 22, 2006, PROMULGATING THE LIST OF LEGAL CAPITAL LEVELS APPLICABLE TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
THE GOVERNMENT
Pursuant to the December 25. 2001 Law on Organization of the Government; Pursuant to June 16. 2010 Law No. 46/2010/ QHI2 on the. State Bank of Vietnam; Pursuant to June 16. 2010 Law No. 47/2010/ Off 12 on Credit Institutions; At the proposal of the Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam.
DECREES:
Article 1. To amend and supplement a number of articles and clauses of the Government's Decree No. 141/2006/ND-CP of November 22, 2006, promulgatig the list of legal capital levels applicable to credit institutions, as follows:
1. To amend and supplement Clause I, Article 2 as follows:
"1. Licensed credit institutions must take measures to ensure that their actually contributed or allocated legal capital at least reaches the legal capital levels set in the list promulgated together with this Decree by December 31, 2011, at the latest."
2. To amend and supplement Article 3 as follows:
"Powers of the -State Rank of Vietnam:
1. During the lime credit institutions fail to reach the legal capital levels specified in Clause 1, Article 1 of this Decree, the State Bank of Vietnam shall not consider licensing expansion of operation network (branches, representative offices, non-business units and other forms of establishment under law) of these credit institutions or their expanded business lines.
2. After December 31, 2011 the State Bank of Vietnam shall consider and handle under law credit, institutions that, fail to reach the legal capital levels specified in Clause 1, Article 1 of this Decree."
Article 2. Effect
This Decree lakes effect on March 15. 2011.
Article 3. Implementation responsibility
The Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam, ministers, heads of ministerial-level agencies. heads of government-attached agencies, and chairpersons of People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities shall implement this Decree.
