---
id: "vbpqta_7750"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_7750"
title: "Nghị quyết 10/2004/NQ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "10/2004/NQ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-08-11"
effective_date: "2004-09-07"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_7750"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị quyết 10/2004/NQ-CP

RESOLUTION No. 10/2004/NQ-CP of August 11, 2004 on the Government’s July 2004 regular meeting
According to the Resolution at its July regular meeting held on August 4 and 5, 2004, the Government heard:
- The Minister of Finance presenting the Scheme on the establishment of the State Capital Investment and Business Corporation.
- The Minister of Justice presenting the draft Civil Code (amended).
- The State Chief Auditor presenting the Bill on State Audit.
- The Minister of Foreign Affairs presenting the Bill on Conclusion and Implementation of International Treaties.
- The Minister of Defense presenting the Bill on National Defense.
- The Ministry of Public Security presenting the Bill on the People's Police.
- The Chairman of the Central Committee for Flood and Storm Prevention and Combat reporting on the situation of natural disasters in the early months of this year.
It also considered a report on the results of production, business, service and investment activities in July and the implementation of the socio-economic development plan in July and in the first seven months of 2004, presented by the Ministry of Planning and Investment; a report on commercial activities in July, presented by the Ministry of Trade; a report on examination and settlement of complaints and denunciations in the second quarter and the first six months of 2004, presented by the State Inspectorate.- (Summary)
