---
id: "vbpqta_9029"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_9029"
title: "Nghị định 10/2003/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "10/2003/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-02-11"
effective_date: "2003-03-20"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_9029"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 10/2003/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 10/2003/ND-CP of February 11, 2003 adjusting the administrative boundaries for the establishment of communes, ward and township of Vinh Thuan, Kien Luong, Phu Quoc, Hon Dat districts and Rach Gia provincial capital, Kien Giang province
To establish Hoa Chanh commune of Vinh Thuan district on the basis of a land area of 4,255.3 ha and a population of 10,195 of Vinh Hoa commune. Vinh Hoa commune shall be left with a land area of 3,027.7 ha and a population of 9,286.
To transfer Ba Hon, Hoa Lap and Xa Ngach hamlets of Duong Hoa commune, Kien Luong district, to Kien Luong township. To establish Kien Binh commune of Kien Luong district on the basis of a land area of 17,910.6 ha and a population of 5,638 of Kien Luong township. Kien Luong township shall be reduced to a land area of 3,500 ha and a population of 24,287 and Duong Hoa commune to a land area of 4,235.4 ha and a population of 6,123.
To establish An Thoi township of Phu Quoc district on the basis of a land area of 2,691 ha and a population of 15,573 of An Thoi commune. To establish Hon Thon commune of Phu Quoc district on the basis of the remaining land area of 571 ha and population of 2,076 of An Thoi commune.
To establish My Phuoc commune of Hon Dat district on the basis of a land area of 4,279.89 ha and a population of 6,384 of My Lam commune, which shall be reduced to a land area of 3,988.47 ha and a population of 16,039.
To establish Vinh Bao ward of Rach Gia provincial capital on the basis of a land area of 77.38 ha and a population of 17,789 of Vinh Lac ward, which shall be left with a land area of 174.62 ha and a population of 16,002.- (Summary)
