---
id: "vbpqta_8014"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8014"
title: "Nghị định 108/2004/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "108/2004/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-04-01"
effective_date: "2004-04-17"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8014"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 108/2004/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 108/2004/ND-CP of April 1, 2004 guiding the declaration of property by the People's Council candidates at all levels
Candidates of the People's Councils of all levels must declare fully, accurately and truthfully their property according to the set form promulgated together with the National Assembly Standing Committee's Resolution No. 487/2004/NQ-UBTVQH11 of March 17, 2004 and shall be responsible for their declaration contents.
The People's Councils and People's Committees shall coordinate with the Vietnam Fatherland Front Committees of the same levels in directing the election councils in organizing the property declaration by the People's Council candidates at their levels.
Property declarations shall be enclosed with dossiers of candidates and managed and used according to the regulations on management and use of election dossiers.
Any queries, complaints about, or denunciations against property declarations of the People's Council candidates shall be settled according to the provisions of the Law on Election of Deputies to the People's Councils.
It is strictly prohibited to distort the contents of, damage or supply to incompetent persons for illegal use, the property declarations. Violators shall be disciplined or examined for penal liability according to law provisions.
This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.- (Summary)
