---
id: "vbpqta_10542"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_10542"
title: "Circular 113/2009/TT-BTC"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "113/2009/TT-BTC"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2009-06-02"
effective_date: "2009-07-17"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Bộ Tài chính"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_10542"
signers:
  - "Đỗ Hoàng Anh Tuấn"
job_titles:
  - "Thứ trưởng"
---

# Circular 113/2009/TT-BTC

CIRCULAR
AMENDING AND SUPPLEMENTING CIRCULAR NO. 66/2009/TT-BTC OF MARCH 30, 2009, PRESCRIBING THE COLLECTION, REMITTANCE, MANAGEMENT AND USE OF THE FEES FOR GRANTING PASSPORTS, VISAS AND PAPERS FOR ENTRY, EXIT, TRANSIT AND RESIDENCE IN VIETNAM
Pursuant to the Ordinance on Charges and Fees; Pursuant to the Government’s Decree No. 107/2007/ND-CP of June 25, 2007, detailing a number of articles of the Residence Law; Pursuant to the Government’s Decree No. 118/2008/ND-CP of November 27, 2008, defining the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance; Pursuant to the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 36/2009/QD-TTg of March 5, 2009, on annulment of the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 875/TTg of November 21, 1996, permitting overseas Vietnamese to return to their home country; The Ministry of Finance guides as follows:
Article 1. To annul fees for granting laissez-passers for repatriation and repatriation certificates prescribed in Article 9, Appendix II – Fee rates for foreigners and overseas Vietnamese, promulgated together with the Finance Ministry’s Circular No. 66/2009/TT-BTC of March 30, 2009, prescribing the collection, remittance, management and use of the fees for granting passports, visas and papers for entry, exit, transit and residence in Vietnam.
Article 2. This Circular takes effect 45 days from the date of its signing. Any problems arising in the course of implementation should be reported by concerned agencies to the Ministry of Finance for study and settlement.
