---
id: "vbpqta_8498"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8498"
title: "Nghị định 119/2003/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "119/2003/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-10-17"
effective_date: "2003-11-05"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8498"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 119/2003/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 119/2003/ND-CP of October 17, 2003 on adjusting administrative boundaries for the establishment of communes and townships of Cho Moi, Tri Ton, Tinh Bien and Phu Tan rural districts, An Giang province
To establish My Luong township of Cho Moi rural district on the basis of a land area of 808 ha and a population of 15,540 of My Luong commune. After the adjustment of its administrative boundary, My Luong commune is left with a land area of 1,241 ha and a population of 13,466 and renamed My An commune.
To establish Ba Chuc township of Tri Ton rural district on the basis of a land area of 2,056 ha and a population of 13,122 of Ba Chuc commune. After the adjustment of its administrative boundary, Ba Chuc commune is left with a land area of 6,471 ha and a population of 3,658 and renamed Vinh Phuoc commune.
To establish Nui Voi commune of Tinh Bien rural district on the basis of a land area of 1,225 ha and a population of 4,387 of Chi Lang township. After the adjustment of its administrative boundary, Chi Lang township is left with a land area of 713 ha and a population of 7,372.
To establish Tan Trung commune of Phu Tan rural district on the basis of a land area of 790.15 ha and a population of 11,163 of Tan Hoa commune. After the adjustment of its administrative boundary, Tan Hoa commune is left with a land area of 921.85 ha and a population of 8,188.
This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.- (Summary)
