---
id: "vbpqta_8506"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8506"
title: "Nghị định 120/2003/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "120/2003/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-10-20"
effective_date: "2003-11-08"
expiry_date: "2007-05-28"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8506"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 120/2003/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 120/2003/ND-CP OF OCTOBER 20, 2003 AMENDING ARTICLE 9 OF THE GOVERNMENT'S DECREE No. 30/2002/ND-CP OF MARCH 26, 2002 PRESCRIBING AND GUIDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SOME ARTICLES OF THE ORDINANCE ON ELDERLY PEOPLE
THE GOVERNMENT
Pursuant to the December 25, 2001 Law on Organization of the Government;
Pursuant to April 28, 2000 Ordinance on Elderly People;
At the proposal of the Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs,
DECREES:
Article 1.- To amend Article 9 of Decree No. 30/2002/ND-CP of March 26, 2002 prescribing and guiding the implementation of a number of articles of the Ordinance on Elderly People as follows:
" Article 9.- Elderly people shall be given healthcare as prescribed in the Law on Protection of People's Health of July 11, 1989.
Elderly people shall enjoy priority services when taking medical examination and treatment at medical establishments according to Decree No. 23/HDBT of the Council of Ministers (now the Government) of January 24, 1991 on the Regulation on medical examination and treatment as well as functional rehabilitation.
Elderly people aged 90 or older shall be granted health insurance cards free of charge."
Article 2.- This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette. The provisions in this Decree shall replace the provisions in Article 9 of Decree No. 30/2002/ND-CP of March 26, 2002.
Article 3.- The ministers, the heads of the ministerial-level agencies, the heads of the agencies attached to the Government and the presidents of the provincial/municipal People's Committees shall have to implement this Decree.
On behalf of the Government Prime Minister PHAN VAN KHAI
