---
id: "vbpqta_9746"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_9746"
title: "Quyết định 1277/2002/QĐ-NHNN"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "1277/2002/QĐ-NHNN"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2002-11-18"
effective_date: "2002-12-01"
expiry_date: "2003-08-01"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Ngân hàng Nhà nước Việt Nam"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_9746"
signers:
  - "Lê Đức Thuý"
job_titles:
  - "Thống đốc"
---

# Quyết định 1277/2002/QĐ-NHNN

DECISION No. 1277/2002/QD-NHNN OF NOVEMBER 18, 2002 ADJUSTING THE COMPULSORY RESERVE RATE FOR FOREIGN CURRENCY DEPOSITS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE BANK
Pursuant to State Bank Law No. 01/1997/QH10 and Credit Institution Law No. 02/1997/QH10 of December 12, 1997;
Pursuant to the Government’s Decree No. 15/CP of March 2, 1993 on the tasks, powers and State management responsibilities of the ministries and ministerial-level agencies;
At the proposal of the director of the Department for Monetary Policies,
DECIDES:
Article 1.- To adjust the compulsory reserve rate for demand and under-12 month term foreign currency deposits of State-run commercial banks, urban joint-stock commercial banks, rural joint-stock commercial banks, cooperative banks, branches of foreign banks, joint-venture banks, financial companies and the central people’s credit fund to 5% of the total foreign currency deposit balance subject to compulsory reserve.
Article 2.- This Decision shall be applied to calculate the compulsorily reserved amounts as from the compulsory reserve maintenance period of December 2002 and replace Decision No. 270/2002/QD-NHNN of April 1, 2002 of the State Bank Governor.
Article 3.- The director of the Office, the State Bank Chief Inspector, the heads of units under the State Bank, the directors of the State Bank’s provincial/municipal branches, and the general directors (directors) of credit institutions shall have to implement this Decision.
State Bank Governor LE DUC THUY
