---
id: "vbpqta_8642"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8642"
title: "Quyết định 128/2003/QĐ-TTg"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "128/2003/QĐ-TTg"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-06-26"
effective_date: "2003-07-25"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8642"
signers:
  - "Nguyễn Tấn Dũng"
job_titles:
  - "Phó Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Quyết định 128/2003/QĐ-TTg

DECISION No. 128/2003/QD-TTg of June 26, 2003 approving the master plan for reorganization and renewal of State enterprises under the People’s Committee of Ho Chi Minh City
Enterprises where the State continues to hold 100% of their charter capital: 46 public-utility enterprises and 58 business enterprises.
Enterprises to have their sections equitized: 3.
Enterprises to be equitized with the State holding dominant shares of over 50% of their charter capital: 30.
Enterprises to be equitized with the State holding at least 51% of their charter capital when shares are sold for the first time: 48.
Enterprises to be equitized with the State holding shares at low percentages or holding no shares: 36.
Enterprises to be merged into others: 34.
Enterprises to be assigned or sold: 2.
Enterprise to be transformed into non-business unit with revenues: 1.
Enterprises to be dissolved: 6.
Enterprises to be bankrupted: 5.
Roadmap for the implementation is as follows:
In 2003: 35 enterprises shall be equitized; 34 merged into others; 2 assigned or sold; 1 transformed into a non-business unit with revenues; 6 dissolved; and 3 bankrupted.
In 2004: 43 enterprises shall be equitized; and 2 bankrupted.
In 2005: 39 enterprises shall be equitized.
To experimentally shift to operate after the parent company-affiliate company model: 4 corporations and 1 company.- (Summary)
