---
id: "vbpqta_7132"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_7132"
title: "Quyết định 1420/2004/QĐ-BTM"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "1420/2004/QĐ-BTM"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-10-04"
effective_date: "2004-11-10"
expiry_date: "2008-09-04"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Bộ Thương mại"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_7132"
signers:
  - "Trương Đình Tuyển"
job_titles:
  - "Bộ trưởng"
---

# Quyết định 1420/2004/QĐ-BTM

DECISION No. 1420/2004/QD-BTM OF OCTOBER 4, 2004 PROMULGATING THE REGULATION ON ISSUANCE OF VIETNAM’S CERTIFICATES OF ORIGIN - FORM D FOR ENJOYMENT OF PREFERENCES UNDER THE AGREEMENT ON THE COMMON EFFECTIVE PREFERENTIAL TARIFFS (CEPT) SCHEME FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ASEAN FREE TRADE AREA (AFTA)
THE TRADE MINISTER
Pursuant to the Government’s Decree No. 29/2004/ND-CP of January 16, 2004 on the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Trade Ministry;
At the proposal of the director of the Export- Import Department,
DECIDES:
Article 1.- To promulgate together with this Decision the Regulation on issuance of Vietnam’s certificates of ASEAN origin - Form D for enjoyment of preferences under the Agreement on Common Effective Preferential Tariffs (CEPT) Scheme.
Article 2.- This Decision takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.
Article 3.- This Decision replaces the Trade Minister’s Decision No. 416/TM-DB of May 13, 1996 promulgating the Regulation on issuance of Vietnam’s certificates of ASEAN origin - Form D, and its amending and supplementing Decisions No. 0878/1998/QD-BTM of July 30, 1998, No. 1000/1998/QD-BTM of September 3, 1998 and No. 0492/2000/QD-BTM of December 25, 2000.
Article 4.- The director of the Office, the director of the Organization and Personnel Department, the director of the Export-Import Department, the heads of the concerned agencies under the Trade Ministry shall have to implement and guide the implementation of this Decision.
Trade Minister TRUONG DINH TUYEN
