---
id: "vbpqta_8583"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8583"
title: "Quyết định 146/2003/QĐ-TTg"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "146/2003/QĐ-TTg"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-07-17"
effective_date: "2003-08-11"
expiry_date: "2005-10-23"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8583"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Quyết định 146/2003/QĐ-TTg

DECISION No. 146/2003/QD-TTg OF JULY 17, 2003 ON FOREIGN PARTIES' PARTICIPATION RATES IN VIETNAM'S SECURITIES MARKET
THE PRIME MINISTER
Pursuant to the December 25, 2001 Law on Organization of the Government;
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 48/1998/ND-CP of July 11, 1998 on securities and securities market;
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 64/2002/ND-CP of June 19, 2002 transforming State enterprises into joint-stock companies;
Pursuant to the Prime Minister's Decision No. 36/2003/QD-TTg of March 11, 2003 promulgating the Regulation on contribution of capital to, and purchase of equities from, Vietnamese enterprises by foreign investors;
At the proposal of the Chairman of the State Securities Commission,
DECIDES:
Article 1.- Foreign organizations and individuals, that purchase and/or sell stocks on Vietnam's securities market, may hold at most 30% of the total number of listed stocks of an issuing organization.
Article 2.- The percentage of capital contribution of a foreign securities-trading organization to a joint-venture securities company or a joint-venture fund management company shall be at most 49% of the charter capital.
Article 3.- Foreign organizations and individuals may hold an unlimited percentage of bonds circulated on Vietnam's securities market.
Article 4.- This Decision replaces the Prime Minister's Decision No. 139/1999/QD-TTg of June 10, 1999 and takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.
Article 5.- The ministers, the heads of the ministerial-level agencies, the heads of the agencies attached to the Government and the presidents of the People's Committees of the provinces and centrally-run cities shall have to implement this Decision.
Prime Minister PHAN VAN KHAI
