---
id: "vbpqta_8215"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8215"
title: "Nghị định 15/2004/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "15/2004/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-01-09"
effective_date: "2004-01-29"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8215"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 15/2004/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 15/2004/ND-CP of January 9, 2004 on dissolving agricultural farm townships for the establishment of communes and townships of Ngoc Lac, Thach Thanh, Cam Thuy, Nhu Xuan and Nong Cong rural districts, Thanh Hoa province
To dissolve Lam Son agricultural farm township of Ngoc Lac rural district to establish Lam Son commune on the basis of the whole land area of 1,067.90 ha currently used by, and a population of 3,423 of, the agricultural farm township and a land area of 149.70 ha and a population of 819 of Minh Tien commune. Lam Son commune shall have a land area of 1,217.60 ha and a population of 4,242.
The remaining population of Lam Son agricultural farm township shall be transferred to Minh Tien, Minh Son, Kien Tho and Xuan Chau communes.
To dissolve Song Am agricultural farm township of Ngoc Lac rural district and transfer the population thereof to Nguyet An, Kien Tho, Phung Giao, Phung Minh, Tho Minh, Xuan Chau, Xuan Lam and Xuan Thien communes.
To dissolve Phuc Do agricultural farm township of Cam Thuy rural district to establish Phuc Do commune on the basis of a land area of 578.95 ha currently used by, and a population of 2,537 of, the agricultural farm township.
The remaining population of Phuc Do agricultural farm township shall be transferred to Cam Ngoc, Cam Long and Cam Phu communes.
To dissolve Yen My agricultural farm township of Nong Cong rural district to establish Yen My commune on the basis of the land area of 1,325.60 ha currently used by, and a population of 3,147 of, the agricultural farm township and a population of 20 Cong Binh commune. Yen My commune shall have a land area of 1,325.60 ha and a population of 3,177.
The remaining population of Yen My agricultural farm township shall be transferred to Cong Binh, Cong Chinh, Cong Liem, Thang Long, Tuong Son, Yen Lac and Thanh Tan communes.
To dissolve Thach Thanh agricultural farm township of Thach Thanh rural district to establish Thach Tan commune on the basis of the land area of 395.39 ha currently used by, and a population of 1,850 of, the agricultural farm township and a land area of 31,90 ha and a population of 503 of Thach Binh commune. Thanh Tan commune shall have a land area of 427.29 ha and a population of 2,353.
The remaining population of Thach Thanh agricultural farm township shall be transferred to Thach Son and Thach Cam communes.
To dissolve Van Du agricultural farm township of Thach Thanh rural district to establish Van Du township on the basis of the land area of 253 ha currently used by, and a population of 3,440 of, the agricultural farm township and a land area of 169 ha and a population of 738 of Thanh Van commune. Van Du township shall have a land area of 422 ha and a population of 4,178.
The remaining population of Van Du agricultural farm township shall be transferred to Thanh Van, Thanh Tam, Ngoc Trao and Thanh An communes.
To dissolve Bai Tranh agricultural farm township of Nhu Xuan rural district to establish Bai Tranh commune on the basis of a land area of 1,253.79 ha currently used by, and a population of 2,516 of, the agricultural farm township and a land area of 1,283.48 ha and a population of 2,216 of Xuan Binh commune. Bai Tranh commune shall have a land area of 2,537.27 ha and a population of 4,732.
To establish Xuan Hoa commune of Nhu Xuan rural district on the basis of a land area of 2,431 ha currently used by, and a population of 232 of, Bai Tranh agricultural farm township and a land area of 9,245.75 ha and a population of 1,953 of Xuan Binh commune. Xuan Hoa commune shall have a land area of 11,676.75 ha and a population of 2,185.
The remaining population of Bai Tranh agricultural farm township shall be transferred to Xuan Binh and Xuan Thai communes.
This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.- (Summary)
