---
id: "vbpqta_8305"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8305"
title: "Nghị định 153/2003/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "153/2003/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-12-09"
effective_date: "2003-12-27"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8305"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 153/2003/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 153/2003/ND-CP of December 9, 2003 on the establishment of Phuc Yen provincial town and Tam Dao rural district, Vinh Phuc province
To establish Phuc Yen provincial town on the basis of the whole land area and the population of Phuc Yen and Xuan Hoa townships, and Phuc Thang, Tien Chau, Nam Viem, Cao Minh and Ngoc Thanh communes of Me Linh rural district.
To establish Hung Vuong, Trung Trac, Trung Nhi, Phuc Thang and Xuan Hoa wards of Phuc Yen provincial town. Phuc Yen provincial town shall have a land area of 12,029.55 ha, a population of 82,730 and 9 dependent administrative units.
After the adjustment of its administrative boundary, Me Linh rural district shall be left with a land area of 14,095.74 ha, a population of 174,782 and have 17 dependent administrative units.
To establish Tam Dao rural district on the basis of the whole land area and population of Dao Tru, Bo Ly and Yen Duong communes of Lap Thach rural district; Dai Dinh, Tam Quan, Ho Son and Hop Chau communes of Tam Duong rural district; Minh Quang commune of Binh Xuyen rural district and Tam Dao township of Vinh Yen provincial town.
Tam Dao rural district shall have a land area of 23,641.60 ha, a population of 65,912 and 9 dependent administrative units.
After the adjustment of their administrative boundaries, Lap Thach rural district shall have a land area of 32,307.17 ha, a population of 207,326 and 36 dependent administrative units; Tam Duong and Binh Xuyen rural districts and Vinh Yen provincial town shall have 10,713.65 ha, 92,624 people and 13 units; 14,510.74 ha, 103,160 people and 13 units; and 4,983.47 ha, 76,523 people, and 9 units, respectively.
This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.- (Summary)
