---
id: "vbpqta_7749"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_7749"
title: "Nghị định 156/2004/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "156/2004/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-08-16"
effective_date: "2004-09-07"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_7749"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 156/2004/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 156/2004/ND-CP OF AUGUST 16, 2004 ESTABLISHING DONG HOI CITY OF QUANG BINH PROVINCE
THE GOVERNMENT
Pursuant to the December 25, 2001 Law on Organization of the Government;
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 72/2001/ND-CP of October 5, 2001 on the classification of urban centers and urban management levels;
At the proposals of the Minister of Home Affairs and the president of the People's Committee of Quang Binh province,
DECREES:
Article 1.- To establish Dong Hoi city of Quang Binh province on the basis of the whole land area, population and dependent administrative units of Dong Hoi provincial capital.
Dong Hoi city shall have a land area of 15,554 ha, a population of 130,636 and 16 dependent administrative units being the wards of Nam Ly, Bac Ly, Dong Phu, Phu Hai, Dong Son, Dong My, Hai Dinh, Hai Thanh, Bac Nghia and Duc Ninh Dong, and the communes of Nghia Ninh, Duc Ninh, Bao Ninh, Loc Ninh, Thuan Duc and Quang Phu.
The administrative boundary of Dong Hoi city: To the east, it borders on the sea; to the west, it borders on Bo Trach and Quang Ninh rural districts; to the south, it borders on Quang Ninh rural district; to the north, it borders on Bo Trach rural district.
Quang Binh province shall have 7 district-level administrative units being the rural districts of Tuyen Hoa, Minh Hoa, Quang Trach, Bo Trach, Quang Ninh and Le Thuy and Dong Hoi city.
Article 2.- This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette. All previous regulations contrary to this Decree are hereby annulled.
Article 3.- The president of the People's Committee of Quang Binh province, the Minister of Home Affairs and the heads of concerned agencies shall have to implement this Decree.
On behalf of the Government Prime Minister PHAN VAN KHAI
