---
id: "vbpqta_8302"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8302"
title: "Decree 156/2003/ND-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "156/2003/ND-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-12-10"
effective_date: "2003-12-27"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: false
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8302"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Prime Minister"
---

# Decree 156/2003/ND-CP

DECREE No. 156/2003/ND-CP of December 10, 2003 on the adjustment of administrative boundaries and establishment of wards and communes of Thu Dau Mot provincial town and Dau Tieng, Phu Giao and Di An rural districts, Binh Duong province
To transfer a land area of 24 ha and a population of 1,211 of Phu Tho ward of Thu Dau Mot provincial town to Phu Hoa ward.
To transfer a land area of 53 ha and a population of 861 of Phu Hoa ward of Thu Dau Mot provincial town to Phu Tho ward.
To establish Phu Loi commune of Thu Dau Mot provincial town on the basis of a land area of 735 ha and a population of 13,927 of Phu Hoa ward.
To transfer a land area of 78 ha and a population of 1,006 of Dinh Hoa commune of Thu Dau Mot provincial town to Tuong Binh Hiep commune.
To establish Hiep An commune of Thu Dau Mot provincial town on the basis of a land area of 144 ha and a population of 3,571 of Tuong Binh Hiep commune, and a land area of 352 ha and a population of 3,420 of Tan An commune.
To transfer a land area of 505 ha and a population of 672 of An Lap commune, Dau Tieng rural district, to Dinh Hiep commune.
To establish Dinh Thanh commune of Dau Tieng rural district on the basis of a land area of 505 ha and a population of 822 of Dau Tieng township; a land area of 4,256 ha and a population of 873 of Dinh An commune; and a land area of 555 ha and a population of 1,004 of Dinh Hiep commune.
To establish Tam Lap commune of Phu Giao rural district on a basis of a land area of 12,057 ha and a population of 2,119 of Vinh Hoa commune.
To establish Binh Thanh commune of Di An rural district on the basis of a land area of 601 ha and a population of 6,184 of Binh An commune.
This Decree takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.- (Summary)
