---
id: "vbpqta_7452"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_7452"
title: "Decision 1675/2004/QD-BTM"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "1675/2004/QD-BTM"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2004-11-12"
effective_date: "2004-12-14"
expiry_date: "2004-12-21"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Bộ Thương mại"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_7452"
signers:
  - "Mai Văn Dâu"
job_titles:
  - "Vice Minister"
---

# Decision 1675/2004/QD-BTM

DECISION No. 1675/2004/QD-BTM OF NOVEMBER 12, 2004 APPROVING THE SUPPLEMENTED 2004 NATIONAL KEY TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
THE MINISTER OF TRADE
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 29/2004/ND-CP of January 16, 2004 defining the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Trade;
Pursuant to the Trade Minister's Decision No. 0104/2003/QD-BTM of January 24, 2003 promulgating the Regulation on formulation and management of national key trade promotion programs;
Pursuant to the Prime Minister's Official Dispatch No. 1587/CP-KTTH of October 22, 2004 on the supplementation of the 2004 national key trade promotion program;
At the proposal of the Director of the Department for Trade Promotion and the Director of the Department for E-Commerce,
DECIDES:
Article 1.- To approve the scheme on "the national e-commerce gate - ECVN" to be added to the 2004 national key trade promotion program.
- Implementation duration: 2004-2006.
- Total funding: VND 17 billion, of which:
+ The State’s support: VND 15 billion
+ Supports from other sources: VND 2 billion.
Article 2.- To assign the Department for Trade Promotion to take main charge of the scheme and the Department for E-Commerce to directly organize its implementation.
Article 3.- This Decision takes effect 15 days after its publication in the Official Gazette.
Article 4.- The Director of the Department for Trade Promotion and the Director of the Department for E-Commerce of the Ministry of Trade shall have to implement this Decision.
For the Minister of Trade Vice Minister MAI VAN DAU
