---
id: "vbpqta_6523"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_6523"
title: "Decision 2504/2005/QĐ-BTM"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "2504/2005/QĐ-BTM"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2005-10-10"
effective_date: "2005-11-05"
expiry_date: "2006-05-01"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Bộ Thương mại"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_6523"
signers:
  - "Phan Thế Ruệ"
job_titles:
  - "Thứ trưởng"
---

# Decision 2504/2005/QĐ-BTM

DECISION
Promulgating the Regulation on management of temporary import for re-export or border-gate transfer of goods banned or suspended from import
THE MINISTER OF TRADE
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 29/2004/ND-CP of January 16, 2004, defining the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Trade;
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 57/1998/ND-CP of July 31, 1998, detailing the implementation of the Commercial Law regarding goods export, import, processing and purchase/sale agency activities with foreign countries;
Pursuant to the Prime Minister's directions in Document No. 935/TTg-KTTH of July 7, 2005, on temporary import for re-export, border-gate transfer of goods, and consignment of goods via bonded warehouses;
At the proposal of the director of the Export-Import Department,
DECIDES:
Article 1.- To promulgate together with this Decision the Regulation on management of temporary import for re-export and border-gate transfer of goods banned or suspended from import.
Article 2.- To annul the Trade Ministry's Circular No. 16/2000/TT-BTM of August 21, 2000, guiding the temporary import for re-export and border-gate transfer of automobiles and cigarettes into the Chinese market.
Article 3.- This Decision takes effect 15 days after its publication in "CONG BAO."
Article 4.- The People's Committees of the provinces having border-gate economic zones defined in the Prime Minister's Decision No. 53/2001/QD-TTg of April 19, 2001, the director of the Export-Import Department, the director of the Office, and concerned units of the Trade Ministry, and traders dealing in goods banned or suspended from import shall have to implement this Decision.
