---
id: "vbpqta_8409"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_8409"
title: "Quyết định 271/2003/QĐ-BTM"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "271/2003/QĐ-BTM"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "2003-03-13"
effective_date: "2003-03-28"
expiry_date: "2007-02-04"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Bộ Thương mại"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_8409"
signers:
  - "Mai Văn Dâu"
job_titles:
  - "Thứ trưởng"
---

# Quyết định 271/2003/QĐ-BTM

DECISION No. 271/2003/QD-BTM OF MARCH 13, 2003 PROMULGATING THE 2003 LIST OF GOODS ITEMS ELIGIBLE FOR EXPORT SUPPORT CREDIT
THE MINISTER OF TRADE
Pursuant to the Government's Decree No. 95/ND-CP of December 4, 1993 defining the functions, tasks, powers and organizational apparatus of the Ministry of Trade;
Pursuant to the Prime Minister's Decision No. 133/2001/QD-TTg of September 10, 2001 promulgating the Regulation on Export Support Credit;
Pursuant to the Government's Resolution No. 02/2003/NQ-CP of January 17, 2003 on a number of major undertakings and solutions for the performance of the 2003 socio-economic development tasks, which require concentrated direction;
In furtherance of the Prime Minister's directing opinions in the Government's Official Dispatch No. 78/CP-KTTH of January 20, 2003 on export promotion in 2003;
After consulting with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning and Investment and the Development Assistance Fund,
DECIDES:
Article 1.- To promulgate together with this Decision the 2003 list of goods items eligible for export support credit.
Article 2.- This Decision takes effect 15 days after its signing.
For the Minister of Trade Vice Minister MAI VAN DAU
THE 2003 LIST OF GOODS ITEMS ELIGIBLE FOR EXPORT SUPPORT CREDIT
(Promulgated together with the Trade Minister's Decision No. 0271/2003/QD-BTM of March 13, 2003)
1. Rice
2. Peanut
3. Coffee
4. Tea
5. Pepper
6. Cashew nut (processed)
7. Vegetables and fruits (canned, fresh, dried, preliminarily processed, fruit juice)
8. Sugar
9. Aquatic products
10. Meat of livestock and poultry
11. Porcelain and ceramic articles
12. Fine-art handicraft woodworks
13. Articles made of rattan, bamboo or leaves
14. Silks
15. Electric wires and cables
16. Key mechanical products
17. Knitwear
18. Computers in complete sets and accessories thereof.-
