---
id: "vbpqta_1437"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_1437"
title: "Nghị định 72/1999/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "72/1999/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "1999-08-18"
effective_date: "1999-08-18"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_1437"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 72/1999/NĐ-CP

Decree No. 72/1999/ND-CP of August 18, 1999 on the readjustment of administrative boundary and expansion of Vinh Yen town, Vinh Phuc province
To annex Lai Son hamlet of Thanh Van commune and Doi Son region of Van Hoi commune, Tam Duong district, and Lac Y hamlet of Dong Chuong commune, Yen Lac district to Tam Duong district township, Tam Duong district. After having its administrative boundary readjusted, Tam Duong district township shall have a land area of 1,412.04 ha and a population of 21,791.
To annex Tam Duong district township of Tam Duong district to Vinh Yen provincial capital.
To establish of Dong Tam and Hoi Hop wards of Vinh Yen provincial capital on the basis of the whole land area and population of Tam Duong district township: Dong Tam ward shall have a land area of 696.04 ha and a population of 12,058. Hoi Hop ward shall have a land area 716 ha and a population of 9,733.
To establish Thanh Tru commune of Binh Xuyen district on the basis of 775.01 ha and a population of 6,612 of Quat Luu commune.
To annex Thanh Tru commune of Binh Xuyen district to Vinh Yen provincial capital.
After having its administrative boundary readjusted: Vinh Yen provincial capital shall have a land area of 5,079.27 ha and a population of 65,727, comprising 10 dependent administrative units; Yen Lac district shall have a land area of 10,585.23 ha and a population of 138,417; Tam Duong district shall have a land area of 19,961.35 ha and a population of 121,352; Binh Xuyen district shall have a land area of 20,625.99 ha and a population of 112,044.- (Summary)
