---
id: "vbpqta_1432"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_1432"
title: "Nghị định 74/1999/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "74/1999/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "1999-08-20"
effective_date: "1999-08-20"
expiry_date: null
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Còn hiệu lực"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_1432"
signers:
  - "Phan Văn Khải"
job_titles:
  - "Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 74/1999/NĐ-CP

Decree No. 74/1999/ND-CP of August 20,1999 on the administrative boundary readjustment for the establishment of district capitals and townships, and communes in Meo Vac, Yen Minh, Quan Ba, Bac Quang and Hoang Su Phi districts, and Ha Giang provincial capital, Ha Giang province
To annex Lung Vai and Pho My hamlets of Sung Tra commune, Meo Vac district to Meo Vac commune for the establishment of Meo Vac district capital and Ta Lung commune. Meo Vac township, the capital of Meo Vac district, shall have a land area of 1,441 ha and a population of 4,074. Ta Lung commune shall have a land area of 1,955 ha and a population of 2,013.
To readjust the administrative boundary of Yen Minh commune, Yen Minh district, as follow:
- To transfer a land area of 284,4 ha and a population of 329 to Sung Trang commune; and a land area of 649 ha and a population of 646 to Lao Va Chai for management.
- To establish Yen Minh, district township capital of Yen Minh district, on the basis of a land area of 3,047 ha and a population of 4,932 of Yen Minh commune.
- To establish Huu Vinh commune on the basis of a land area of 2,554.9 ha and a population of 2,587 of Yen Minh commune.
- To establish Dong Minh commune on the basis of the remaining land area of 2,086 ha and population of 2,009 of Yen Minh commune.
To establish Tam Son district capital of Quan Ba district, on the basis of a land area of 1,230 ha and a population of 3,858 from Quan Ba commune.
To establish Dong Tien commune of Bac Quang district on the basis of a land area of 3,385.6 ha and a population of 2,293 of Dong Tam commune.
To establish Yen Thanh commune of Bac Quang district on the basis of a land area of 5,896 ha and a population of 2,826 of Yen Binh commune.
To establish Vinh Quang district township, capital of Hoang Su Phi district, on the basis of the whole land area of 418 ha and a population of 2,182 of Vinh Quang commune.
To establish Kim Linh commune of Ha Giang township on the basis of a land area of 3,590 ha and a population of 2,064 of Kim Thach commune.- (Summary)
