---
id: "vbpqta_1357"
identifier: "vbpl-vbpqta_1357"
title: "Nghị định 79/1998/NĐ-CP"
country: "vn"
jurisdiction: "vn"
jurisdiction_name: "Trung ương"
scope: "Trung ương"
doc_num: "79/1998/NĐ-CP"
doc_type: "Bản dịch văn bản"
rank: "ban-dich-van-ban"
issue_date: "1998-09-29"
effective_date: "1998-10-14"
expiry_date: "2002-07-16"
public_date: null
updated_date: null
status: "Publish"
effective_status: "Hết hiệu lực toàn bộ"
agency_name: "Chính phủ"
organization_name: null
organization_type: null
agency_level: "TRUNG_UONG"
jurisdiction_code: null
language: "en"
updated_by: "locvt6"
content_file_name: null
content_doc_file_name: null
has_content_html: true
is_translation_doc: true
is_consolidated_document: false
is_administrative_document: false
view_count: 1
source_url: "https://vbpl.moj.gov.vn/van-ban/chi-tiet/vbpqta_1357"
signers:
  - "Nguyễn Tấn Dũng"
job_titles:
  - "Phó Thủ tướng Chính phủ"
---

# Nghị định 79/1998/NĐ-CP

DECREE No. 79/1998/ND-CP OF SEPTEMBER 29, 1998 ON AMENDMENTS TO THE DUTY-FREE LUGGAGE QUOTAS FOR PASSENGERS ON EXIT OR ENTRY AT VIETNAM'S BORDER GATES, ISSUED TOGETHER WITH DECREE No. 17-CP OF FEBRUARY 6, 1995 OF THE GOVERNMENT
THE GOVERNMENT
Pursuant to the Law on Organization of the Government of September 30, 1992.
Pursuant to the Law on Export Tax and Import Tax of December 26, 1994;
Pursuant to the Customs Ordinance of February 24, 1990;
At the proposal of the General Department of Customs,
DECREES:
Article 1.- To amend line No. 5 in the Duty-Free Luggage Quotas for Passengers on Exit or Entry at Vietnam's Border-gates, issued together with the Decree No. 17-CP of February 6, 1995 as follows:
"For other articles outside the luggage quotas stated in lines No. 1, 2, 3, 4 above (not banned goods), the passengers being Vietnamese citizens, overseas Vietnamese or foreigners on entry or exit with passports shall be entitled to bring them with a duty-free volume valued at not more than 300 USD."
Article 2.- This Decree takes effect 15 days after its signing. The other provisions in Decree No. 17-CP of February 6, 1995 remain valid for implementation.
Article 3.- The Director General of the General Department of Customs shall have to guide and organize the implementation of this Decree.
On behalf of the Government
For the Prime Minister
Deputy Prime Minister
NGUYEN TAN DUNG
